---
layout: page
title: Ten + 250: My Path to Tenure and 250 Miles
---
<h4>What is this page for?</h4>
Welcome to my running page! The purpose of this page is to give me a blog to write about my path to a 250 mile race and tenure. I'll blog about both tenure-related stuff and my training, but the main purpose of this is to talk about my training.  It's also to hold me more accountable.  I plan to run either Cocodona 250 or Infinitus 250 in 2030.  

<h4>Upcoming Events</h4>
2025 Indianapolis Marathon
2026 Shippey 20 Mile
2026 Clinton 30 Mile
2026 Illinois Marathon
2026 Ice Age 50 Mile
2026 Ragbrai
2026 Tunnel Hill
2030 Ten + 250!

<h4>July 12th, 2025: Gravel Cheese Grater</h4>
As of today, July 12th 2025, I have (nearly) recovered from a pretty bad bike crash while visiting my sister's cottage in Vermont with my family over the fourth of July week.  I was going nearly 35 miles per hour on a road bike on gravel downhill, and I (presumably) hit a rut and flipped over my bike.  I was with my sister and her husband George, and George ran down the hill to a nearby circus to get help and cell service.  Luckily there was a circus doctor who was able to take me through concussion protocol, which is the first thing I actually remember in full detail after crashing.  The ambulance came and took me to the nearest hospital, where I had to get ~13 stitches, CT scans, X-rays.  The ER doctor  described my injuries as "having run my body through a cheese grater."  I left after getting patched up, though all the nurses were surprised I hadn't broken more bones. I had a pretty bad concussion and couldn't look at my phone for about a week.  

I attribute the reason I didn't break more bones to the fact that I was simultaneously recovering from a stress fracture (technically stress injury) in my left fifth metatarsal that I got while training for the 2025 Ice Age Trail 50 Mile race (DNS).  I was taking calcium and vitamin D supplements to hopefully get back to running soon, and likely my bones were good and strong when I got into my bike crash.  Because of the stress fracture I had first pivoted my fitness to rowing and completed a 100km row (in 8.5 hours), where I started to feel a little tennis elbow from the volume I was putting in.  After my 100k row I switched to cycling, and I managed a few 250 mile cycling weeks, including one (slow) century ride.  But all of this was just a way for me to stay sane while my foot healed up.

So, here I am, mostly patched up, getting antsy because I (still) want to go back outside and get to training, but I can't because I'm not fully healed up. In lieu of training, I've made a spreadsheet of my plans to build to Cocodona 250 in 2030 immediately after tenure.  I'm hoping to channel David Roche during his 2024 bike crash, where he got into a massive crash and came back to beat the Leadville 100 course record and win Javelina Jundred.  


<h4>10 + 259 = 260</h4>
My goals can be stated somewhat simply: build to a 250-mile race while becoming famous in my field (statistics) and keeping my relationship with my wife healthy.  The details mean that I'm planning to hold roughly ~60-70 mile weeks once I build back up, and I plan to complete several races in the leadup.  Since I live in flatland Illinois and trail running requires a 40-minute drive (Clinton lake or Forest Glen are the two closest with any meaningful vert), I'll plan to do several flat races and limit myself to one or two longer trail races per year.  To get in long trail runs, I'll have to negotiate a bit with my wife and plan to run further away on training camps.  I'm not too far from Shawnee, the Ozarks (both ~4 hours), and I'm pretty excited for the possibility of a Smoky Mountains trip next spring.  Honestly, a major draw for me to do these big things is that I love to explore trails.  I usually am able to explore new trails while attending conferences as well, so hopefully I can make that happen.

My training to 250 miles will revolve around 1-2 ultras per year, with the hope that the 100 mile distance will become easier over the next 5 years.  Because I'm absolutely foolish, I've planned out what my races are.  Each year has a designated purpose to it, though I plan to keep speed in the mix as well.  I'm going to summarize this below, though of course this could all change at any time.

2025: Coming Back.  I plan to run the Indianapolis Marathon on ~45 road miles per week.  I'm currently at zero, so the main goal is to start at around 20 miles per week (a low enough number that I should bee okay) and build to 70 miles per week prior to Ice Age 2026 by adding about 2 miles per week.  My goal this year is really about having a nice Strava graph and getting strong in the gym.

2026: Building Healthily. I'm planning on running both Ice age 50 and Tunnel Hill 100. The purpose of 2026 is not necessarily about the races (though of course this would be my first of both distances), but rather building up carefully to each race and arriving at the start line healthy.  I have a history of DNS or dropping down (Baltimore marathon to half, DNS the HAT 50k in Baltimore, DNS 2025 Clinton 30, DNS 2025 Ice Age 50).  My only goal in 2026 is to build up safely without hurting myself and to complete my first 100 mile run.  I also hope to build up some running fitness at faster paces.  This year I also plan to do RAGBRAI, the 7-day long bike across Iowa, as well as the Shippey 20-miler (in hopes to do a longer distance at that racein the future).  I plan to also run the Clinton 30 and Illinois Marathon in prep.  

2027: Getting Used to the 100 Mile Distance. I plan to run either Kettle Morraine 100 or Cry Me a River 100.  The purpose of 2028 is to get used to a 100 mile trail run with non-trivial elevation.  These aren't "crazy vert" runs like the western mountain hundreds (who knows, maybe one day?), but they are proper trail runs unlike Tunnel Hill, which is pretty much the flattest 100-miler in the country. I want to get some experience building to a longer trail race (>50 miles) while still maintaining research output and my relationship.  I think biweekly long runs on trail and a training camp should be enough for this.  I've also learned that the reason I got a stress fracture was that I significanly upped my road mileage (did my long run on roads for two weeks), and that is (possibly) what hurt me (and also maybe switching to Carbon shoes exlusively), so I'd like to figure out how to maintain road fitness and still be prepared for a trail race.  I'm also planning to do the Shippey 40 mile (overnight in January!), as well as my usual Clinton 30 mile and Illinois Marathon as prep.

2028: Whiplash Training: Shippey 100k, 48 hours in the dome, and Midwest Everest.  The purpose of 2028 is to maximize training stimulus on two polar opposite races. First, the Shippey 100k race should be fun, since it's in January and I'll have good time to build from my last race, and it's a good chance to see how little long runs on trail I can get away with (seeing as the peak would fall right around Christmas).  By this time I'll hopefully have gotten used to the course itself, so I include it as a key race since it is 100km, but I would not say it is an "A" race.   The next race, 48 hours in the dome, is my "road race" of the year -- 48 hours in an indoor track in Milwaukee.  The goal here is building to high mileage and building speed on roads.  Some of my favorite ultra runners have done this race: Zach Bitter and Jenny Hoffman. I plan to take this opportunity to really build fitness.  My other planned race this year is Midwest Everest, which is probably the polar opposite of 48 hours in the dome.  It is 152 times up and down a ski hill, plus four separate 2-mile loops that can be done at any time.  It has the same vert as UTMB or Hardrock, but it's in Michigan (i.e., closer to me), and it's absolutely insane.  Building to this race after the flat race should be interesting. It's also at the end of September, which can be a little easier to swing given the semester schedule.

2029: 250-specific races: I am (tentatively) planning to run one of the shorter Cocodona races -- either Bradshaw Brute 100 or Sedona Canyons 125.  The main issue with these races is that they typically coincide with final exam week or the week prior, so I'll have to figure out how to handle it.  If this doesn't work, I can potentially try to run Infinitus 100, which seems more feasible.  If none of this works, another cool option would be to through-run the river to river trail in Shawnee, a 160-mile trail on almost all single-track.  Depending on my ability level (I have big goals, but also I will be preparing for tenure), I can shoot for an FKT, which (in 2025) is currently at 55.5 hours. Depending on my recovery, I may try to shoot for another race in the fall, but fall trail races can be hard based on teaching schedules.  

2030: Ten + 250.  This is the year I'll hear back about tenure.  It's also the year I plan to shoot for either Cocodona 250 or Infinitus 250.  I lean slightly more towards Cocodona due to its fame and prestige, but from a work standpoint Infinitus is at the end of May and will probably be easier to do travel-wise.  I can also probably stay at my sister's husband's cabin in Vermont (where I crashed), so it's kind of like coming full circle. TBD.  

Throughout all of this time I'll need to be doing research, submitting grants, graduating PhD students, teaching courses, reviewing papers, and serving on various committees.  Research is not as plannable as running, but I also have big goals: 1 (strong) solo-author paper per year, 1 (equally as strong) faculty-only coauthor paper per year, and as many student lead-author papers as I can handle.  I also should submit at least one grant per year (if not more), attend workshops and conferences, and give talks. 

